>> It is said that this world
is an illusion and beyond,
it lies our real existence.
There are many ancient accounts
of other worldly experiences,
parallel universes and
alternate dimensions.
Some have the ability to
move between these worlds.
And some have unconsciously
slipped away from here
and managed to return,
sharing with us
their experiences
from the other side.
>> Hi.
My name is Vicki Frick.
I'm from Cape Town.
A few years ago, I crossed
over to the other side.
And for some other
reason, I was sent back.
Needless to say,
since then, it's
been a one way,
roller coaster, ride
ticket with a crazy
amount of things happening
that are inexplicable.
And it's just been a
journey of awakening
of experiences and growth.
>> Cultures and ethnicities
may vary and be worlds apart.
There is a common denominator
that awaits us all.
For some, it is dark and scary.
While others, welcome it.
Death is inevitable
to all living beings.
Some people shy away
from reflecting on death,
not wanting to face it.
Some, celebrate the
spiritual crossing over.
>> Lining up in hospital, it
was discovered that I needed
to have surgery.
And in that time, I was
very specific in letting
all the nursing
staff and the doctors
know that I was
allergic to opioids.
And during the procedure,
my blood pressure dropped
and my oxygen levels dropped.
And when they brought me
out to the recovery room,
they gave me copious
amounts of morphine.
I was quite conscious
in the sense
of hearing what their
plans were at that stage--
up the morphine dose--
because it wasn't working.
And I heard the nurses
saying, we're losing her.
At that time, I was
standing outside of my body
watching the nurse force my
hand away from the oxygen mask,
while I was trying to
tear it from my face
to say to her that I'm
allergic to morphine
and you're actually killing me.
The next thing I
knew, I was in what
felt like a warm hug,
incredibly bright light
almost like a mist,
and an essence.
All I kept thinking
was, I want to stay.
Nothing else mattered
at that point.
And then, this
conscious awareness
of the fact that
I must have died.
I must be outside of the
realm of the physical world.
And I started hearing very
soft voices and things.
It was almost like
a knowing that these
were the voices
of people that I'd
known from my childhood,
my past, people
that had passed on.
I couldn't see anything.
It was incredibly bright.
And my thoughts
fell onto my son who
I hadn't had a chance to
spend a lot of time with.
It didn't sit well with me
that I didn't get a chance
to say goodbye to him.
And it was supposed
to be a knee up.
And here I am.
I was taken to this area where
there was these vast gardens--
more flowers than I could
ever count in a lifetime--
incredible colors,
flowing rivers--
colors that I'd also
never seen before.
And nothing mattered
at that point--
no stress, no financial things.
None of the bonds that
we have here mattered,
because I didn't need anything.
I'd left it all behind,
but there was my son.
>> Many people around the world
share experiences of crossing
over to the other side and
returning to this life once
again.
This is called a
near-death experience.
>> I went out to Somerset
West with a friend of mine.
And we went to his farm,
which he actually had
a swimming pool at the farm.
So when we arrived
there, I basically jumped
into my bathing, ran to
the pool, and I dived.
The impact of the water
bent my neck over.
And it broke my neck.
So I was paralyzed.
When I came around, I was
lying next to the pool.
And I had an experience
of crossing over.
And I was floating, and going
up, and going through a tunnel.
As I'm going through
the tunnel, I
saw that there was light on
the other side of this tunnel.
We actually went into
this pure, white light.
And all the while, going through
there, I had two angels--
one on each side going with me.
The angels, they then asked
me if I wanted to cross over
or if I wanted to
go back to my life.
And I said, yes, please.
I want to go back, because
there's unfinished business,
which I have.
And then everything went dark.
And I woke up next to the pool.
And found out afterwards, that
I'd actually broken my neck
and that I was paralyzed.
And I landed up in hospital.
Basically, I battled for
months on end to actually walk.
>> Accounts of NDEs or
near-death experiences are
ambiguous and can vary from
scientific to religious
to spiritual perspectives,
although the actual experiences
share many details.
Neuroscience
research hypothesizes
that an NDE is a subjective
phenomenon resulting
from disturbed bodily,
multi-sensory integration that
occurs during
life-threatening events.
While some transcendental
and religious beliefs
about an afterlife
include descriptions
similar to many documented NDEs.
>> Whatever spiritual gifts, I
was naturally supposed to have,
have all kind of
come into fruition.
And the people that I held
quite dear to me at that point,
I've lost some along the way.
I've held onto those
that I've found
are what I call my tribe, my
spiritual sisters and brothers.
And I've had some
incredible experiences
that have changed who I am.
I've grown.
I've learned understanding,
and compassion,
and unconditional
love, forgiveness,
the true meaning of purpose.
Where I'm currently at, now,
definitely for the better.
I don't have the same time
constraints and pressures
that I used to
place myself under.
I enjoy life.
I connect with nature.
I know when it's
time to recharge.
I understand the things
that are important to me
are the things that
I missed when I left
and everything
else is irrelevant.
And I'm starting to realize
that I hold the power to the way
that I see life, the way that
I accept things, the way that I
acknowledge certain things.
And it's been life changing.
The scary thing
is sometimes, you
have to die to realize what
it feels like to really live
and not just merely exist in a
space where you're a character.
>> You know, I couldn't
tell anybody my experience,
because I didn't know that
people even listen to me
or believe what I
actually told them.
And it just happened
that one day--
this is now about 30 odd years
afterwards, 32 years later--
I was driving.
And I was listening
on the radio.
And I heard other people that
also had the same experience.
And that's when I
started talking about it.
And I actually told my wife.
It took me all those
years to actually tell her
what the experience
was that I had.
Then I told some friends.
And it happened that one of my
friends actually said to me,
it's so strange as
you talk about it,
because he had an experience.
And he thought that
it was a dream,
that it actually happened.
And I said to him, no, no.
Mine wasn't a dream.
Mine was for real,
because I felt it.
And when I actually
came around, I
was like, what happened to me?
I didn't get to see heaven.
But I did see the angels.
And it was the most
beautiful feeling.
And I'd like to let the
people know that there
is life on the other side.
And when people tell you
they've also crossed over,
you can believe them.
>> In terms of perspective,
what shifts for most people that
come back is the
existence of heaven.
And how it's kind of
frowned upon inside
of a religious
constraint that, heaven
is something different to
every person out there.
But it really is home.
It's the place
that you came from.
It's a place that you
are going to return to.
It's real.
Experiencing angels,
miracles, prayer, that works.
Getting on your knees
and praying for something
and knowing, learning,
developing ways and means
to pray for other people.
And standing back and
watching fantastic things
happen in their life,
because faith is stronger.
And hope is something
that you strive towards.
The other thing that
happens is, you've
gone through something that is
very, very hard to talk about.
It's unbelievable.
It's outrageous.
And what you find
is there are people
that are sent across
your path that you just
have this natural
attraction and affinity to.
That you look at
them and you think--
something deep inside of you
says, you know what I know.
I can open up to you.
I can feel safe here.
I can feel at home here.
And I can share with you.
And there's going
to be no judgment.
>> We started sharing.
And she then asked me
about my grandmother.
And I don't really talk about
my grandmother who raised me.
And she said, well, she's
standing right next to you.
And she's smiling at you.
And I was shocked at first.
And she says, she loved you.
And she gave you the
best that she could,
because you were her pearl.
And I started crying.
And we started holding hands.
Then, the next day,
she called me and said,
listen, my husband
just called me.
And he's filing for a divorce.
And I need someone to speak to.
And we went to this place--
and we don't even know it.
And we started praying.
And then a gentleman that
was passing by with his car,
he reversed back,
got out of his car,
and actually stood
next to Vicki.
And another woman was passing
by, which was shocking,
started praying as well.
And she didn't even know us.
And afterwards, she just
said, Amen and everything
will be well.
And she asked me,
what happened to you?
And I told her, well, there is
this day where I was sleeping.
And as I was sleeping,
I could slowly
feel myself lifting off the bed.
But what was funny is that
I'm looking at myself.
But I allowed it.
At first, I was fighting it.
And then something
said, I must allow it.
While I was going up, I was
shown with a deep voice saying,
this is the life
that I want for you.
I was scared at first.
And I said, well, the only life
I want if I can join my grand,
because I cannot live
without my grand.
And he said, walk with me.
And while I was
walking with him,
I went back to when I was very
tiny, when I was really small.
And he said, the
first day I saw you,
this is the first
day I had plans.
And I could see my life--
my granny taking me to school,
walking me to my creche,
walking me to ballet
lessons, coming back.
Her boss, Mrs.
DeCork, smiling at me
and saying, I want to
raise her with you,
Euphemia, which was my grand.
And said, I want to raise her.
There's just some--
there's just this light.
And he said, that day that
Mrs. DeCork took you in
is the day I brought light.
I love you.
And we started walking.
But while he's walking
me through my life,
I didn't know it
was the next day.
So the next day, my father's
sister is waking me up.
And I was not moving.
She says, I could
feel your pulse.
But you're not moving.
She then started
calling the neighbors.
And my sisters were
saying, hey, she's dead
or something's happening.
And people were coming.
And eventually, they called
my pastor and he came through.
And he said, no, she's not dead.
She's living, feel her pulse.
And but I could hear
the voices speak to me.
But I was more interested in,
what is this I'm going through?
We started walking through
my life and how I got there.
And he was talking to me, in
a comforting voice, saying,
it's OK.
And I said, but why
can't I see my body?
Why are they praying around me?
Why are they-- am I dead?
Are you taking me?
Not yet, or wait,
I'm not quite sure.
And he said, relax.
And afterwards, he said,
it is now up to you,
whether you take
three directions.
It is the direction of fruit.
It's the direction of health.
It's the direction of happiness.
So I went to the
direction of fruit first.
And when I got there,
it was just fruits
that I've never seen.
It was fruits that
I wanted to taste.
But when I touched them,
I couldn't pick them up.
And he said, your
life will be fruitful.
And he said, you see, the
first choice that you made is,
how you're going
to live your life.
Eventually, I got
back into my body.
Vicki then started singing--
Oh touch me now my Savior--
which nobody knew
that was the song.
I heard.
And I started crying.
And she said, God
loves you so much.
You need to start living.
And you need to be fruitful.
And that's when I
knew that, OK, Vicky,
I'm never going to leave
your sight ever again.
I will be by your side.
And we have been in each
other's presence, like I could
feel when she is not happy.
And she knows when she's
not happy, she calls me.
I will literally take my son.
And we will go to her
house and live there
for weeks or two weeks.
And my son will travel to and
from just because she's, OK.
>> Knowing that you've got a
crowd in your corner that are
for you--
people that are praying,
that have good intentions--
is worth more than
its weight in gold.
And we need to be very
careful to guard ourselves,
to protect our energy,
to surround ourselves
with beautiful, life
enhancing moments and things.
And dive into good poetry.
Listen to good music.
Go dip your feet in the ocean.
Get out in between flowers.
And enjoy the simple things
in life with good people.
>> Obviously, Vicki
being my daughter,
we've never actually spoken
about our experiences.
And I've only heard
it now, today,
that she's had a very
similar experience, where
it has happened to her as well.
So I'm very interested
to hear what her side is.
And obviously, I will
tell her what happened
to me and my experience.
>> The universe has merged Vicki
and her father's paths together
in such a fantastical
and wondrous manner,
that it is almost
impossible to understand.
Join us, after the break,
when Vicki and her father
share with each other
for the first time, both
having experienced
life altering,
near-death experiences.
>> The first time that I heard
that you had died was a couple
of months ago when you
mentioned it in the kitchen.
But I didn't want to ask.
I was kind of waiting
for that moment where
you felt comfortable
enough to tell me,
because it's such a
personal experience.
And it's life changing.
And it's so hard to tell someone
that this is what happened,
because most people look at you
like you have lost the plot.
So how did it feel for you
to realize that you died?
And I mean, you said
you had a choice.
You were given the
choice to come back.
Do you feel like you've
fulfilled your purpose
and lived out the life
that you had planned?
>> Well, personally, I can
tell you now that I think
I've fulfilled my purpose.
I've had the joy, the
kids, my beautiful wife.
And I think that the
Lord wanted me here,
to be here for all those things
that I wanted in my life.
And yeah, I'm very
thankful for it.
So yeah, it's me.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Ah, glad you came back.
>> Yeah, when I heard that
it actually happened to you,
because I hadn't
heard of it before,
it is very nice
to experience it.
And it's also very
nice to be back.
I'm very happy you're back.
I love you.
>> I love you, dad.
I know that heaven's
waiting for me.
So there's no fear of
going or passing on.
It's an incredible place,
an incredible place
to exist and be.
But obviously, I wasn't ready.
And I still have some things
that I need to do this side.
So I'm patient.
And I'm waiting.
But I'm excited to go back.